// This is the Project Report for our Team Project: Virtual Library Management System.

// System Design: We constructed this project for the virtual library management system by dividing the code sections into three parts, each corresponding to the three menus (pre-login, user, and admin that the users of the program should interact with). A person worked on each of the three menus, ensuring that they could be coherently and smoothly linked together in a meaningful and accurate manner. The code has been written so that in the program, the pre-login menu should be the first menu the customer interacts with. The user and admin menus should be accessed appropriately, based on whether the registering person signs up as a user or an admin.

// Implementation Details: Careful measures have been taken to ensure correct code using implementation details throughout the program. The code for each menu contains user-defined functions to properly fulfill the goals of each option the customer is able to select. The pre-login menu has functions to ensure a secure log-in/registration system in which several things are taken into account: the user cannot log in to an account that is not registered or register an account that already belongs to someone else. Once an account is successfully registered and logged in, the user of the account is allowed to access the user or admin menu depending on his status. The User Menu has functions that allow the user to search for an existing book stored in a book file, borrow a book from the book file, return a book to the book file, view the list of borrowed books, and update his profile in the user file. The Admin Menu has functions that allow the user to add a new book to the book file, remove an existing book from the book file, update the title and author of an existing book in the book file, view loans in the loan file, and manage the users of the program (i.e. add or remove users, promote them to admins, or demote existing admins to users).

Testing Strategy: We each ran several tests on each individual component of the system (pre-login, user, and admin menus) to ensure that each option functioned optimally and satisfied its basic goal. We then merged together these components to test that the entire program flowed smoothly without severe errors causing a halt in the system. We used Replit for our tests

User Manual: You start in the pre-login menu, where you have the options to (1) Login, (2) Register, and (3) Exit the program. It is required that you register your own account; enter the username and password for your account and then indicate whether or not you are an admin. Then login to your created account. If you are simply a user, you will be directed to the user menu, where you have six options. (1) Search for Books; (2) Borrow a Book; (3) Return a Book; (4) View Borrowed Books; (5) Update Profile; (6) Logout. For each of these options, simply follow the directions (i.e. entering the name and author of a book for options 1-3, and adjusting your username and profile for option 5). If you are an admin, follow a similar procedure for the six options in the admin menu. (1) Add a Book; (2) Remove a Book; (3) Update Book Information; (4) View All Loans; (5) Add/Remove User (Admins); (6) Logout. A list of books is required in the book file before you remove or update a book, and a list of users (admins) is required in the user file before you add or remove a user (admin).
